---
title: Don't be blind when KIF fails on Travis
author: Andreas Böhrnsen
date: 2014-02-03 18:16 UTC
tags: ios, testing, travisci, aws
published: false
---

Do you test your iOS app? You should! The best way to test it is as a user would interact with it. So you test the full stack. KIF is great for that. It integrated nicely into XCode and it can even create screenshots when it fails.
But how to get them out when we use Travis? Here is how.

READMORE

## Introduction

Travis-CI is great when it comes to continuous integration of OpenSource software. It integrates nicely with Github and is easy to setup.  
In April 2013 they introduced automated [testing for Mac and iOS][1]. They did not stop there and were adding support for newer SDKs as well. Currently they support SDKs for iOS 5, 6, 7.

But how to test iOS apps? There are a lot of ways and [frameworks][2] out there. I wanted to test the iOS app as a user would use it.  
So acceptance testing as I knew it from web development was the way to go.
After a short detour to bewoken I settled with KIF. In the new 2.0 version it features a cleaner API and nice XCode integration.  
I found the framework I wanted.

Setting up KIF 2.0 on travis was straight forward following their documentation. However the Travis build always failed. Why? It was running perfectly fine on my local machine.
Trying different settings for xctool (the tool from Facebook to build and test Xcode projects on the command line) did not work either. I was groping in the dark, nothing to be seen. No idea if even the simulator came up and what it showed.

Wouldn't it be great to have screenshots of when the test failed?


http://blog.travis-ci.com/introducing-mac-ios-rubymotion-testing/


This article assumes that you have a basic understanding of continuous integration with Travis CI, automated testing with KIF 2.0 and Amazon S3 for file hosting.
You will find good resources on the internet to get started on those topics. So you may consult Google to fill in the gaps.


Would there just be a way to see a screenshot of where it hung.
And there is!

Here is a solution I came up with to upload screenshots of the simulator to S3 when the test failed.
Why S3? It seemed to me to be the easiest solution. Please suggest other ways.

## Setting up KIF

Setting up KIF is nicely described in the KIF docs. I do not want to add to this here. You may just read it on the KIF website.  
The only important thing to mention is that we have to use the `:head` version.

The current version ... does not support taking screenshots yet.

```ruby
platform :ios, '5.1'

# Testing
target 'Acceptance Tests', :exclusive => true do
  pod 'KIF', :head
end
```

`.travis.yml`

```yml
language: objective-c
rvm:
  - 1.9.3
```

This would already install your pods and run all tests.

## TLDR

The "magic" lies in the Travis configuration.

Here is the whole file I came up with:

`.travis.yml`

```yml
language: objective-c

rvm:
  - 1.9.3

env:
  global:
    - KIF_SCREENSHOTS="${TRAVIS_BUILD_DIR}/Screenshots/${TRAVIS_BUILD_NUMBER}"
    - secure: N0tEZ7I8F...

before_install:
  - brew update
  - brew install s3cmd

before_script:
  - mkdir -p $KIF_SCREENSHOTS

after_failure:
  - echo "secret_key = $AWS_SECRET" >> .s3cfg
  - s3cmd put --guess-mime-type --config=.s3cfg $KIF_SCREENSHOTS/* s3://travis-iopensongs/$TRAVIS_JOB_NUMBER/
```

### Important things to note:

- use Ruby 1.9.3 in the rvm part. The default Ruby segfaults when running `pod` for CocoaPods.
- use KIF > version 2.0.0 or head. Version 2.0.0 does not support taking screenshots.
- enable taking screenshots with setting the KIF_SCREENSHOTS path
- use after_failure hook to upload the screenshots to S3

## Better secure your AWS secret key

.s3cfg

	[default]
	access_key = AKIAJQNTDRMHAJHFSKFA

add the AWS Secret Key

	travis encrypt AWS_SECRET=fKJF1yXHjLwQ/9t77Sm9Z3k62oBiEmKc3HrMsVwf --add

how it looks in Travis Log

```shell
$ export KIF_SCREENSHOTS="${TRAVIS_BUILD_DIR}/Screenshots/${TRAVIS_BUILD_NUMBER}"
$ export AWS_SECRET=[secure]
$ export TEST_SDK=iphonesimulator5.1
$ export SIMULATOR=ipad
```

  [1]: http://blog.travis-ci.com/introducing-mac-ios-rubymotion-testing/ "Introducing Mac, iOS and RubyMotion Testing on Travis CI"
  [2]: http://stackoverflow.com/questions/4114083/ios-tests-specs-tdd-bdd-and-integration-acceptance-testing

