source/blog/articles/2015-11-10-blog-updates.html.markdown, before:

---
title: No updates?
date: 2015-11-10 18:00 UTC
tags: blog
published: true
---

What happened? There are no recent posts.

READMORE

Truth being told I started some blog posts on my adventure with [Ember.js](http://www.emberjs.com) but  never finished. Now that Ember 2.0 is out these posts are already outdated.

Also, this blog is using [Middleman](https://middlemanapp.com) and it is not as user friendly as it could be. No 'press a button and write along'-experience. I was thinking to switch to [Ghost](https://ghost.org/) but found [prose.io](http://prose.io) which I am trying with this post.

Let's see how it goes. I payed more with Docker and was thinking to move all my dev environments there. That could be a nice post. That hopefully does not outdate so quickly :)


Update 10min later:
Seems that prose.io [does not support Middleman](https://github.com/prose/prose/issues/561) yet, just Jekyll. Well, so my hunt to a less painful blog experience continues.

Update 15min later:
This blog post did not build because the date in the frontmatter did not match the one in the file name. Does it make sense to keep it in two places?

Update 17min later:
For some reason I had the wrong file extension. Should be `.html.markdown` and not only `.markdown`. Learned something new again :)

Commit message:

update date and add update

source/blog/articles/2015-11-10-blog-updates.html.markdown, after:

---
title: No updates?
date: 2015-11-10 17:27 UTC
tags: blog
published: true
---

What happened? There are no recent posts.

READMORE

Truth being told I started some blog posts on my adventure with [Ember.js](http://www.emberjs.com) but  never finished. Now that Ember 2.0 is out these posts are already outdated.

Also, this blog is using [Middleman](https://middlemanapp.com) and it is not as user friendly as it could be. No 'press a button and write along'-experience. I was thinking to switch to [Ghost](https://ghost.org/) but found [prose.io](http://prose.io) which I am trying with this post.

Let's see how it goes. I payed more with Docker and was thinking to move all my dev environments there. That could be a nice post. That hopefully does not outdate so quickly :)


Update 10min later:
Seems that prose.io [does not support Middleman](https://github.com/prose/prose/issues/561) yet, just Jekyll. Well, so my hunt to a less painful blog experience continues.

Update 15min later:
This blog post did not build because the date in the frontmatter did not match the one in the file name. Does it make sense to keep it in two places?

Update 17min later:
For some reason I had the wrong file extension. Should be `.html.markdown` and not only `.markdown`. Learned something new again :)

Update 24min later:
Hay, we have winter time now in Germany. So the date in the frontmatter was in the future and the post was not build...
